[Music]
boy it seems like you'll learn and
you'll learn and you'll learn and still
it's like you're no closer to your goals
why can't you succeed and go further
well it turns out there are recipes for
success that winners use and you can too
for one thing it just may be that you
haven't applied the 5-hour rule now the
five hour rule is one of the most
effective techniques of learning created
by the founder of impact Michael Simmons
this concept goes back to Benjamin
Franklin who spent time every day
setting goals learning new things and
experimenting this strategy is used by
Bill Gates Mark Zuckerberg Oprah Winfrey
and Elon Musk who have all reached shall
we say a very high level of achievement
right so to be like these folks do what
they do invest regular time on
deliberate learning there are three main
steps reading reflecting and
experimenting Harry Truman said not all
readers are leaders but all leaders are
readers Bill Gates reads one book every
week Elon Musk is sure that reading
makes him learn faster than anything
else and Warren Buffett spends 5 to 6
hours a day reading so read at least one
hour a day read drink breaks before bed
or get into audiobooks this will really
push you towards the results you seek
the next step is reflection take time to
reflect on what you read how can you
absorb and use it in life or work can I
give you outstanding results analyze
take notes ask questions
Jeff whiner LinkedIn CEO spends two
hours every day to think about the day's
activities so review your week and take
a fresh look at all your work and
personal decisions did you make any
mistakes what did you learn and what can
you do to be
even more effective finally experiment
if you've read new information test it
and see whether it works for you have
courage to try new unconventional
approaches in your work should you
follow someone else's footsteps or can
you blaze your own Trail
every product or service you know and
love today is the result of a thought
someone else have so go out and create
your own of course this 5 hour rule
isn't the only technique the rich and
successful follow here are some other
ones that can help you succeed the
eisenhower matrix this simple method was
created by General Dwight Eisenhower and
is mentioned in multiple productivity
books including the seven Habits of
Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey
at the beginning of your workday take
some paper or use your work journal draw
a big box and then divide it into four
squares write important and not
important next to the boxes down the
left side and urgent and not urgent
above the boxes across the top then fill
these squares by assigning the tasks you
might need to do according to importance
and urgency your focus should be on
activities in the important and not
urgent category like learning exercise
personal growth etc that's where your
most important activities live but they
get easily pushed aside by the urgent
and not important stuff your goal is to
spend your day only doing the top two
important boxes and to eliminate the
activities in the bottom two not
important boxes like surfing the net
watching TV stuff that wastes your time
etc ninety minute intervals
researchers from Florida State
discovered an interesting pattern top
performers from any field who focus on
one thing for 90 minutes are much more
productive than others who grind out
hour after hour behind the desk so
here's an idea for you try to
concentrate for 90 minutes straight on
something important
and then give yourself a 15-minute break
watch bright side do a little workout
take a walk in the park and then start
another 90-minute focus block this will
allow you to recharge and get back in
the game with new exciting ideas ex
method the ex method is something you
know very well already you put up a
calendar above your desk set a goal for
yourself and mark a big X for every day
you stuck to it this technique can help
you achieve anything you put your mind
to thanks to one little detail that you
lack consistency the chain of X's in
your calendar reminds you how far you
come and motivate you to keep going your
goal here is to not break the chain
comedian Jerry Seinfeld credits this for
much of his massive success his ex was
to write one new joke every day worked
out pretty well huh if you need some
extra motivation set a reward for
yourself once you hit the finish line it
can be anything lunch at your favorite
place a concert or anything that floats
your boat peak hours you can group the
people in the world into two types early
birds and night owls and most people
have certain times of the day where
their power is the highest and they get
a lot done so to increase your
productivity you have to make your own
schedule and figure out your two to
three peak hours for example I can't
focus well in the afternoon and evening
I'd rather just relax but the next day
when the clock strikes 9:00 a.m. I'm
enthusiastic and excited and can easily
do the hardest task till about noon and
that's the key to this method find these
2 to 3 peak hours when you're the most
productive and perform the most
important and productive work during
that time you can do all the other stuff
in the remainder of the day energy
levels peak hours are best combined with
your energy levels your energy may
depend on the day of the week and affect
your productivity and everyone's
different for example let's say on
Mondays your energy is
thanks to an awesome weekend it's a fine
time to plan your week Tuesdays and
Wednesdays are your peak days brainstorm
get the most difficult tasks done and
experiment on Thursdays your personal
energy begins to slow down so it's
better to organize a meeting with your
team and on Fridays you can't think of
anything else but the weekend so leave
it for long-term planning and easy tasks
like I said it's different for everyone
so keep a log and see where your highest
energy is then plan around that for
distractions it's hard to get things
done when you're distracted and we live
in the most distracted time in history
so you're not alone there are four main
types mental distractions are thoughts
that pop into your head that aren't
connected to your goal if you notice
this type of distraction coming just
stop and ask yourself what is my focus
right now this will snap you out of it
physical distractions are any objects
that draw your attention away from focus
to minimize them clean your environment
and make sure there's nothing around
that can sidetrack your mind the same
thing goes for digital disruptions hide
your phone turn off the TV and pack away
your PlayStation and finally those pesky
social distractions let people around
you know you're not available at certain
focus times but you'll be happy to talk
at certain other times these four steps
will bring your concentration back to
work
two-minute rule in his book getting
things done the art of stress-free
productivity David Allen describes a
simple rule if your task can be done in
just two minutes
do it you don't even have to put it in
your to-do list do it right here on the
spot and if your goal takes way more
than two minutes to complete at least
start it just make sure you do the
Eisenhower analysis first to judge
whether this task is vital or even worth
doing
if not delete it 8020 rule this
productivity rule also known as the
Pareto principle is astounding but true
roughly 20% of what you do gives you 80%
of the final results which also means
80% of what you do only leads to 20% of
your results Wow
looking for more time in your day figure
out what this most productive 20% is
then spend more time working the 20% and
stop doing the 80% or do less of it two
pizzas rule sounds yummy organizing a
meeting to brainstorm with your team can
be a good idea however you probably know
how it goes when there are too many
people there instead of shooting ideas
one after another you spend an hour on
silly and irrelevant discussions and
waste your precious time so whenever you
want to organize a meeting ask yourself
one simple question can you order just
two pizzas to feed everyone there if
it's more than two then your meeting
team is way too big to be productive
finally learn to say no to all the many
attractive shiny things that call to you
saying look at me look at me begging for
your attention but only distract you and
are ultimately a waste of your time
maybe Twitter Facebook TV gossip etc all
the fun stuff right this may be the
hardest one and yet the most effective
one just say no so do you have any
productivity tricks of your own tell me
all about it in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay with us on the bright side of life
[Music]